---
layout: post
title: A long announcement with details
date: 2015-11-07 16:11:00-0400
inline: false
related_posts: false
---

#### About Me

I am a highly motivated Senior Software Engineer at Optum and am currently a Master's student studying Computer Science at Penn. Previously, I graduated UC Davis with an MBA in 2022 and UC Berkeley for my undergraduate studies as a Regent's Scholar (top 1.5% of incoming class). You can find out more about me on the [homepage](https://bryantduong.github.io/), as this is just a rehash.

#### Subjects

Topics I can tutor and discuss include

* High School Level Math (AP included)
* Essay Revision/Proofreading
* Calculus
* Introductory Level Programming
* SAT Prep (I was a 98th Percentile Scorer during the 2400 scoring format and received a near perfect score on the Math II SAT Subject Test)
* College Admissions Counseling (Undergraduate)
* Career Counseling - Software Engineering

#### Rates

My hourly rates are generally very flexible and range from $20 for lower level topics up to $50 for higher level topics. A free 30 minute session can be arranged to assess my tutoring skills, and to determine if we are a right fit or not!

#### Rules
* Students are expected to provide material we will discuss at least 2 days prior to our scheduled session. If this is the first session, exceptions can be made.
* I encourage people to come with the questions they wish to discuss if it is an academic or career-related topic.
* Being late to a session will count as a no-show and will be discussed with the student.
* Payment plans can be discussed on a monthly or session by session basis.

#### Contact Information

Please send me an email with your name, number, subject of the inquiry, as well as availability and the best time to contact you, and I will be in touch with you shortly. I can be reached at the following email: [bryantduong.tutoring(aT)gmail.com](mailto:bryantduong.tutoring@gmail.com). **References and CV** can be provided upon request.